                                                                   MethodsX 11 (2023) 102464


                                                             Contents lists available at ScienceDirect


                                                                          MethodsX
                                                 journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/methodsx




Synconn_build: A python based synthetic dataset generator for
testing and validating control-oriented neural networks for
building dynamics prediction
Gaurav Chaudhary a,∗, Hicham Johra b, Laurent Georges a, Bjørn Austbø a
a
    Department of Energy and Process Engineering, Norwegian University of Science and Technology (NTNU), Trondheim, Norway
b
    Department of the Built Environment, Aalborg University, Øst, Aalborg, Denmark




a r t i c l e             i n f o                         a b s t r a c t

Method name:                                              Applying model-based predictive control in buildings requires a control-oriented model capable of
synconn_build: A python based synthetic                   learning how various control actions inﬂuence building dynamics, such as indoor air temperature
building dynamics and operation dataset                   and energy use. However, there is currently a shortage of empirical or synthetic datasets with
generator
                                                          the appropriate features, variability, quality and volume to properly benchmark these control-
Keywords:
                                                          oriented models. Addressing this need, a ﬂexible, open-source, Python-based tool, synconn_build,
Building dynamics dataset                                 capable of generating synthetic building operation data using EnergyPlus as the main building
Synthetic data                                            energy simulation engine is introduced. The uniqueness of synconn_build lies in its capability to au-
Open source                                               tomate multiple aspects of the simulation process, guided by user inputs drawn from a text-based
Python package                                            conﬁguration ﬁle. It generates various kinds of unique random signals for control inputs, performs
                                                          co-simulation to create unique occupancy schedules, and acquires weather data. Additionally, it
                                                          simpliﬁes the typically tedious and complex task of conﬁguring EnergyPlus ﬁles with all user in-
                                                          puts. Unlike other synthetic datasets for building operations, synconn_build oﬀers a user-friendly
                                                          generator that selectively creates data based on user inputs, preventing overwhelming data over-
                                                          production. Instead of emulating the operational schedules of real buildings, synconn_build gen-
                                                          erates test signals with more frequent variation to cover a broader range of operating conditions.

                                                            • Synconn_build is an open-source tool designed to address the lack of datasets for benchmarking
                                                              control-oriented building dynamics prediction models.
                                                            • The tool automates simulations, data acquisition, and EnergyPlus conﬁguration, guided by
                                                              user inputs.
                                                            • Synconn_build prevents data overproduction by selectively creating data, oﬀering a user-
                                                              friendly approach to dataset generation.




Speciﬁcations table

        Subject area:                               Energy
        More speciﬁc subject area:                  Building dynamics and operation dataset
        Name of your method:                        synconn_build: A python based synthetic building dynamics and operation dataset generator
        Name and reference of original method:      N.A.
        Resource availability:                      synconn_build’s codebase is hosted on a public GitHub repository (https://github.com/gaurav306/synconn_build)




    ∗
        Corresponding author.
        E-mail address: gaurav.chaudhary@ntnu.no (G. Chaudhary).

https://doi.org/10.1016/j.mex.2023.102464
Received 17 July 2023; Accepted 23 October 2023
2215-0161/© 2023 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. This is an open access article under the CC BY license
(http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/)
G. Chaudhary, H. Johra, L. Georges et al.                                                                      MethodsX 11 (2023) 102464


Introduction

    Reducing energy demand and carbon footprint in the building sector has become a pressing concern, with buildings accounting
for more than 40 % of global energy use and 36 % of greenhouse gas emissions [1]. Residential and commercial buildings consume
approximately 60 % of the global electricity, with Heating, Ventilation, and Air Conditioning (HVAC) systems being responsible for
almost half of this energy demand [2]. Thus, enhancing building energy eﬃciency while maintaining good indoor air quality has
become a crucial aspect of achieving sustainability goals [3].
    As buildings become larger and more multifunctional, controlling and managing various subsystems such as HVAC, lighting,
power distribution, and security through Building Automation Systems (BAS) has become essential. Numerous studies have reported
that a more intelligent control of these subsystems could signiﬁcantly reduce energy use, leading to mitigation of greenhouse gas
emissions [4]. Predictive strategies like Model Predictive Control (MPC) have been observed to be eﬀective in reducing energy costs
while maintaining comfort and considering building varying boundary conditions and internal dynamics [5,6]. The most crucial step
in implementing advanced predictive control techniques in buildings is to create a control-oriented dynamic thermal model that can
accurately predict changes in the indoor temperature. This model should be able to predict or calculate the eﬀect of control actions
like HVAC temperature setpoints, HVAC mode, and window opening signals on building dynamics, including indoor temperature
and energy use variations. However, such a control-oriented dynamic model needs to be prompt, i.e., it should be able to predict
or compute the building dynamics for the input time-period and conditions in a very short time. This is a major requirement as a
predictive controller would need to call the model multiple times (typically 100 - 1000 times) depending on the search space of the
control variables.
    Energy models for buildings fall into three types: white-box, gray-box, and black-box [5]. White-box models(also termed as physics-
based models) need detailed building and system information, using ﬁrst-principle equations to calculate heat and mass transfer.
EnergyPlus, TRNSYS, and IDA ICE are programs that can create such models. Gray-box models (also known as reduced-order models)
utilize simpliﬁed dynamic equations ﬁtted to data for parameter identiﬁcation [7]. A common method here is Resistance-Capacitance
(RC) networks, representing building elements and energy ﬂows. Back-box models (also called data-driven models) leverage statistical
or machine learning techniques, like AutoRegressive models with eXogenous inputs (ARX) and AutoRegressive Moving Average
models with eXogenous inputs (ARMAX), regression trees, Support Vector Machines (SVMs), and Deep Neural Networks (DNNs),
to predict energy needs and indoor conditions [8]. The diﬀerent models have their own strengths and weaknesses that make them
suitable for diﬀerent applications. White-box models have typically been used in the design phase to ensure compliance with building
energy codes, while gray-box and black-box models are more suitable for predictive control, fault detection and diagnostics during
the operational phase.
    Black-box models (like DNNs), while cost-eﬀective and scalable, often need extensive training data to excel. This can be tackled
using transfer learning techniques, integrating data from white-box modeling tools and system identiﬁcation methods. DNNs can ﬁrst
be trained on a large dataset that encompasses a broad range of operating conditions and scenarios, simulated through a generic white
box building model. The pre-trained network using virtual experiments can then be ﬁne-tuned on a smaller dataset of real building
operation data speciﬁc to the model predictive control problem being addressed. By leveraging the pre-trained model’s ability to
extract relevant features from the data, this approach can signiﬁcantly reduce the time and resources required to develop eﬀective
control-oriented models, particularly in situations where the target dataset is relatively small [6,9].
    Using physics-based simulation models to create datasets for pre-training of DNN models has several advantages. First, it allows
for the generation of a large amount of data that covers a wide range of operating conditions and scenarios, which can improve
the performance and robustness of the model. Second, it can provide a controlled environment for evaluating the performance of
the model under diﬀerent control strategies without the risk of damaging or disrupting the real building. Finally, it can signiﬁcantly
reduce the cost and time required to collect real-world data, making it a practical and scalable solution for many building control
applications.
    Currently, there are several public datasets available, comprising both measured data [10–13] and synthetic data generated from
simulations [14–17]. However, it is important to consider that each dataset has its own strengths and limitations. While measurement
data can provide valuable information, it is limited in evaluating control-oriented prediction models due to its restricted variation
in operating conditions. The ultimate objective is to develop control-oriented black-box models using real-world building operation
data. However, researchers and developers frequently encounter challenges in acquiring reliable data, which can be both empirical or
simulated datasets, that have the right features, appropriate variability, and high enough quality (in terms of metadata, information
gaps, and sampling rate) to properly benchmark these control-oriented models. Synthetic datasets can ﬁll this gap, oﬀering advantages
like control over data volume and diversity, accurate ground truth, mitigation of overﬁtting, and privacy preservation. Such datasets
can be used to pre-train, tune, evaluate, test and benchmark control-oriented black-box models over a broad spectrum of conditions.
An example of a synthetic building operation dataset is AlphaBuilding [14], which includes HVAC systems, internal loads, occupant
counts, environmental parameters, energy end-use, and whole-building energy demand at 10-minute intervals. However, this dataset
only contains building operation data for a range of diﬀerent HVAC temperature setpoints and no other possible control parameters.
    Use of synthetic data to train models for real world application is not new. Simulated or synthetically generated datasets have
also been used in other ﬁelds, for example, real self-driving car models pre-trained using data generated from playing driving games
like Grand Theft Auto [18], learning through simulated images [19], using virtual 3D model generated image datasets to train deep
neural networks for hand gesture recognition [20], and use of synthetic data for training models for healthcare applications [21].
    This paper introduces a highly customizable python-based open-source tool, called synconn_build, that generates synthetic data for
the evaluation and benchmarking of control-oriented black-box models for the prediction of building thermal dynamics. Importantly,

                                                                  2
G. Chaudhary, H. Johra, L. Georges et al.                                                                          MethodsX 11 (2023) 102464




                                            Fig. 1. File structure of the codebase for synconn_build.


the intention of this tool is not to generate potential schedules for real-world building operations. Rather, its primary aim is to
produce a variety of test signals that challenge and test the capabilities of black-box models in understanding building dynamics,
so that it is capable of handling real-world scenarios. It uses EnergyPlus, a physics-based simulation software, to perform building
energy simulations. In this paper, a small 5-zone oﬃce building model serves as an exemplar, demonstrating how the tool generates
synthetic data. The dataset can be generated for all 5-zones of the building for a year of simulation time with various random
control features such as HVAC temperature setpoints, HVAC running mode (no operation, heating only, cooling only, or both heating
and cooling), and window openings. The user can customize simulation parameters, such as simulation intervals, weather proﬁles,
and diﬀerent settings for control feature inputs. Additionally, synconn_build incorporates features from AlphaBuilding [14] dataset
generation, such as stochastic occupancy, dynamic lighting, and Miscellaneous Electric Load (MELs) schedules. Unlike other synthetic
datasets for building operations, synconn_build provides an easy-to-use data generator instead of generating data for all permutations
and combinations of operating conditions, which can result in terabytes of data, making it diﬃcult to use.
    While this paper uses a small 5-zone oﬃce building model as a proof of concept to illustrate the capability of synconn_build, it is
important to note that its application is not limited to this speciﬁc archetype. The tool is versatile and can be readily extended to other
EnergyPlus archetype models, representing various other types of buildings. It holds the potential to generate customized datasets
across a wide spectrum of building conﬁgurations, sizes, and operation conditions. A dataset generated by synconn_build has been
used to examine the predictive capabilities of an encoder-decoder deep neural network to predict indoor air temperature evolution
where control variable included heating setpoint and window opening factor [22].
    In this manuscript, the Methods section ﬁrst details synconn_build’s methodology and components, followed by the Results section,
which provides examples of generated data. Information about Data Availability and Code Availability is given in subsequent sections.

Methods

    The following section details the overall workﬂow and diﬀerent parts of the data generator used to create a synthetic dataset.
The generator consists of several interconnected parts, including a stochastic occupancy schedule generator based on real occupant
behavior, a random signal generator and a physics-based model of the case study building. It needs to be stressed that while a small
5-zone oﬃce building model is utilized as a proof of concept and case study building in this paper, the tool’s utility is not conﬁned to
this archetype, but extends to a diverse range of EnergyPlus models, demonstrating its broad versatility in handling diﬀerent building
types and conﬁgurations.

Workﬂow and usage

    The codebase for the data generator comprises three main folders, as shown in Fig. 1: ‘Dataset_output/’, ‘Oﬄine_weather_ﬁles_input/’,
and ‘src/’. The ‘Dataset_output/’ folder contains the ﬁnal time series data generated, which is further described in the ’Data availabil-
ity’ section. The ‘src/’ folder is dedicated to all the scripts and auxiliary ﬁles required by the data generator. As discussed before,
synconn_build enables the user to create customized datasets for a variety of settings. These options are summarized in the ‘Con-
ﬁg_input.yaml’ conﬁguration ﬁle, in which users can modify various variables according to the instructions provided in the comments.
This conﬁguration ﬁle is critical to the synconn_build ’s functionality, as all the scripts depend on its inputs.
    The ‘Run_main.py’ script triggers the data creation pipeline, depicted in Fig. 2, which provides a high-level overview of synconn_build
’s workﬂow. This script transforms the text data from ‘Conﬁg_input.yaml’ into a dictionary that serves as the settings for the entire
pipeline. The main script calls ‘src/OB_GEN/OB_generator.py’ to generate stochastic occupancy schedules depending on user settings.
It then calls ‘src/Signal_generator.py’ to generate diﬀerent random signals used as schedules in the EnergyPlus simulation. Finally, it

                                                                       3
G. Chaudhary, H. Johra, L. Georges et al.                                                                        MethodsX 11 (2023) 102464




                                               Fig. 2. High-level workﬂow of synconn_build.


calls ‘src/EP_Generator.py’, which handles the complex task of manipulating and editing the EnergyPlus Input Data File (IDF). It also
downloads weather ﬁles, creates the necessary directories, and ﬁnally initiates the EnergyPlus program to perform the simulations.
The components of this pipeline will be discussed in greater detail in the subsequent sub-sections.

Occupant behavior (OB) schedule generator

    Synconn_build generates stochastic occupancy schedules for all the zones in the building to be simulated using the OB modeling
tool [23]. The latter tool uses an occupant behavior Functional Mock-up Unit (obFMU) that enables co-simulation with EnergyPlus
implementing a Functional Mock-up Interface (FMI). The co-simulation with EnergyPlus requires the obFMU.fmu ﬁle, which in turn
requires an .xml ﬁle based on an obXML (occupant behavior eXtensible Markup Language) schema and a co-simulation conﬁguration
ﬁle. All the required ﬁles for co-simulation can be generated using the app hosted at https://occupancysimulator.lbl.gov/. This app
takes high-level input on occupants, spaces and events to generate either simulated occupant movement and schedules for each space
or the co-simulation ﬁles, which can be used for simulation externally. The advantage of using the co-simulation ﬁles is that the
diﬀerent occupant schedules for each space can be generated repeatedly oﬄine. Because of the stochastic nature of the co-simulation,
the schedules generated will vary each time the co-simulation is run. This ﬂexibility allows the generation of more time-series datasets
with the same boundary conditions.
    The script ‘src/OB_GEN/OB_Generator.py’ manages the EnergyPlus-obFMU co-simulation to generate stochastic occupancy schedule
ﬁles. The output occupancy ﬁles (in the form of text CSV ﬁles) are stored in the ‘src/OB_GEN/’ folder (see Fig. 2). The user can choose
the time interval of the occupancy schedules by changing the appropriate setting in the conﬁguration ﬁle. Further step-by-step
instructions on how to use it are given in the "Readme.md" ﬁle provided in the main directory of the codebase. A high-level workﬂow
for occupancy schedule generation can be found in Fig. 2.

Signal generator

   In order to design a data-driven control-oriented model that is capable of predicting a building’s response to a set of control
variables, the model needs to train on data representing the potential variation in these variables. One approach is to generate distinct
datasets for each unique combination of control variables. However, the sheer number of combinations, inﬂuenced by the number of
control variables and their potential values, can lead to an immensely large dataset. Alternatively, a dataset can be developed wherein
control variables ﬂuctuate randomly. This technique of utilizing random signals is a cornerstone in the ﬁeld of system identiﬁcation
[7]. In this context, perturbation signals are speciﬁcally introduced to gage and analyze the system’s response. By employing random
signals across all control variables, system dynamics can be captured similarly to the methodical exploration of each control variable
combination in the former approach. It is recommended to use signals that have no correlation with other inputs and approximate
white noise properties [7]. Varying the frequency of change for a signal, i.e., how often the state of the signal changes, can help
identifying diﬀerent time constants of a system. However, a signal with a mix of frequencies can help capture more time constants.

                                                                    4
G. Chaudhary, H. Johra, L. Georges et al.                                                                       MethodsX 11 (2023) 102464




                                                Fig. 3. Noise signals for HVAC setpoints.



Signal generation is implemented in the ’src/Signal_Generator.py’ script. This script allows the user to generate three distinct types
of random perturbation signals individually for all zones of the case study building:

   (1) HVAC setpoints (termed as "mprs_setpoints" in the conﬁguration ﬁle): this signal generates a multi-level random signal for the
       heating setpoint of HVAC system in all ﬁve zones. The cooling setpoint is deﬁned as the heating setpoint plus 5 °C for every
       zone. The diﬀerence between the heating and cooling set point can be conﬁgured by the user. The user can deﬁne a set of
       possible heating setpoints from which the signal generator chooses randomly, for example, [18 °C, 19 °C, 20 °C, 21 °C, 22 °C].
       The user can also deﬁne the way random selections are made, selecting between uniform distribution or normal distribution.
   (2) HVAC mode (termed as "mprs_hvac_mode" in the conﬁguration ﬁle): this signal generates a multi-level random signal for the 4
       diﬀerent HVAC mode individually in all ﬁve zones. These modes are as follows:
            • 0 – uncontrolled/free ﬂoating: in this mode, neither heating nor cooling is enabled.
            • 1 – only heating is allowed if required.
            • 2 – only cooling is allowed if required.
            • 3 – both heating and cooling are enabled if required.
   (3) Window opening: this signal type allows the user to control how the windows are opened and closed. The user can conﬁgure
       a set of possible window positions from 0 to 1, for example, [0, 0.25, 0.5, 0.75, 1], where 0 is fully close and 1 is fully open.
       The user can also conﬁgure the lower and upper limit for the number of timesteps the window can be open (before reverting
       to 0). This signal is individually generated for all the windows in the building.

    For all the generated signals, the user can adjust the frequency of change. This frequency of change can be conﬁgured by limiting
the range of possible timesteps for the signal, by individually conﬁguring ﬁve diﬀerent possibilities for the level of frequency of
change.
    Furthermore, the user can choose to select the signal to have just one level of frequency of change or make a mix of levels. The mix
of levels is generated by splitting the length of the required signal in a random number of randomly long chunks and then designating
each chunk a randomly selected level of frequency change. Detailed instructions on how to conﬁgure these features can be found in
the Readme.md ﬁle in the Github repository.



Noise signals

   When using advanced and intricate data-driven models such as DNNs, having a small dataset can result in poor performance
and overﬁtting. This is because small datasets may pose a more challenging mapping problem for neural networks to learn [24].
A small dataset can either have a limited number of data points or sparsely sampled points in the high-dimensional input space.
Adding random noise during the training of a neural network model is an eﬀective technique for reducing the generalization error
and enhancing the structure of the mapping problem [25,26].
   In synconn_build, random noise was added to HVAC temperature setpoints in the EnergyPlus simulation in addition to HVAC
temperature setpoints signal. The noise was generated by smoothening the Gaussian noise with user-deﬁned mean and standard
deviation [27]. This kind of noise would simulate HVAC system-based malfunctions, faults, mismatch of temperature setpoints and
measurement errors from temperature sensors. Fig. 3 shows 50 random noise signals with a mean of 0 °C and four diﬀerent standard
deviations.

                                                                   5
G. Chaudhary, H. Johra, L. Georges et al.                                                                                    MethodsX 11 (2023) 102464




                               Fig. 4. Thermal zones and building geometry of the case study building used for this paper.




Modeling assumptions

    Synconn_build employs the building energy simulation program EnergyPlus v22.1.0 [28] to generate building data. The US De-
partment of Energy has created a collection of reference EnergyPlus models for commercial buildings that represent 70 % of such
buildings in the US [29]. These models have been used in various applications. The speciﬁc model used in synconn_build is a small
oﬃce building with a single ﬂoor and dimensions of 30 m x 15 m and a ceiling height of 2.4 m, oriented 30° East of the North di-
rection. A 3D visualization and zone conﬁguration can be seen in Fig. 4. The building comprises four exterior thermal zones and one
interior thermal zone, with two meeting rooms (PERIMETER_ZN_2 and PERIMETER_ZN_3) and three open oﬃces. The building has
one window on each of the four facades and glass doors on the southwest and northeast facades, with overhangs providing shading
for the southwest facing window and door. There are no internal openings between zones. The U-values of the internal and external
walls are 1.6 W/m2 K and 2.8 W/m2 K, respectively.
    All fenestrations are high-performance windows with a U-value of 0.7 W/m2 K. The doors in PERIMETER_ZN_1 and PERIME-
TER_ZN_3 is single pane glass with U-value of 5.8 W/m2 K. The window-to-wall ratio is approximately 0.29. To reduce overheating
and simulate occupant preferences for low glare, automatic window shading control lowers the interior shade when the solar irradi-
ance on windows exceeds 50 W/m2 . To simulate the opening and closing of the windows, the ZoneVentilation:WindandStackOpenArea
EnergyPlus object [30] is employed. Using this object, the opening and closing of windows can be scheduled via an EnergyPlus
schedule connected to an external CSV ﬁle. The equation used to calculate the wind-driven natural ventilation rate is based on the
"Wind and Stack with Open Area" model in EnergyPlus.
    The building uses a Variable Refrigerant Flow (VRF) HVAC system [31] for conditioning of the zones. A VRF HVAC system
typically consists of an outdoor heat pump and several indoor air terminal units. The outdoor heat pump is used to cool and heat
the refrigerant sent to all the individual air terminal units. For this model, an air-to-air heat pump supplies the refrigerant for air
terminals in the interior zone. A water-to-air heat pump served by a condenser loop with an electric boiler and cooling tower is used
for exterior zones. The air terminals in each zone have a heating and cooling coil for heating and cooling using the same terminal.
The ventilated air for the building is delivered by a dedicated outdoor air system. For this case study, a timestep of 15 min was used
for the simulation. The user can control this parameter using the Conﬁg_input.yaml ﬁle
    The temperature setpoints for the HVAC systems are provided by the signal generator described hereafter. The signal generator
script primarily generates the heating setpoint. The setback temperature setpoint, i.e., temperature setpoint during unoccupied hours,
for both heating and cooling was diﬀerent for all zones. It varied as ±1 °C, ±1.5 °C, ±2 °C, ±2.5 °C and ±3 °C respectively for ﬁve
zones. For example, for ZN_1 the setback temperature for cooling was set to the cooling setpoint +1 °C and setback temperature for
heating was set to the heating setpoint −1 °C. Diﬀerent setbacks were used to create further variation in HVAC temperature setpoints
proﬁles for all ﬁve zones. This is conﬁgured inside the EnergyPlus IDF ﬁle.
    The schedules for occupancy were produced using a stochastic occupancy simulator [23] to represent the random movements of
occupants in an oﬃce building. These schedules thus encompass spatial and temporal variations of real-life occupancy in an oﬃce
building, which is very diﬀerent from homogenous and static occupant schedules that are very often used in building simulations.
In various studies, lighting and MELs have been found to have a direct correlation with occupancy [23,32,33]. Based on the latter
and using the methodology presented by Hong et al. [15], the lighting and MELs schedules were implemented in EnergyPlus using
Energy Management Script (EMS) programs. The schedules for three working days of occupancy, lighting and MELs are presented
in Fig. 5, together with standard regular occupancy schedules. The logic used for the lighting and MELs schedules is described as a
pseudocode in Fig. 6.




Weather ﬁles

   EnergyPlus requires weather data in the form of .epw ﬁles for simulation. To obtain this data, users have the option of providing a
download link to weather data from https://climate.onebuilding.org/ (a website with a vast collection of free-to-use climate data for
building performance simulation programs) or providing .epw and .ddy ﬁles. The ‘src/EP_Generator.py’ script uses .epw ﬁle as weather
ﬁle for EnergyPlus simulation and .ddy ﬁle to add sizing design day objects to the EnergyPlus input ﬁle.

                                                                           6
G. Chaudhary, H. Johra, L. Georges et al.                                                                              MethodsX 11 (2023) 102464




                     Fig. 5. Stochastic occupancy, lighting and MELs schedules for ﬁve zones compared to homogenous schedules.



Random number generator

    Synconn_build uses the numpy.random python library, which employs PCG-64 as its underlying random number generator, to gener-
ate pseudorandom numbers. PCG-64 is an implementation of O’Neill’s permutation congruential generator with a 128-bit architecture
[34].


Results

    In this section, examples of the generated data are showcased to emphasize the utility and ﬂexibility of the tool. After examining
the Methods section, readers can visualize the diverse scenarios that synconn_build can generate, encompassing varied control variables
settings and output time-series data. It is to be noted that the results here are shown for one zone(PERIMETER_ZN_1) of the case study
building and not the whole building.


Signal generation

    Figs. 7–9 present examples for HVAC heating setpoint, HVAC running mode and window opening, respectively, for a yearlong
energy simulation generated by synconn_build. In each of the ﬁgures, the plot for the signal is followed by a normalized self-correlation
coeﬃcient plotted against the lag of the signal relative to the signal itself (generated by the scipy.signal.correlate function in Python).
The x-axis of this plot represents the lag, varying from −8760 to +8760. It corresponds to the number of hours in a year, i.e., length
of the signal. Positive lags mean that the second signal is shifted to the right of the ﬁrst signal, and negative lags mean that it is
shifted to the left. The self-correlation coeﬃcient usually has a large central spike at 0 lag, which indicates that the signal is perfectly
correlated with itself when there is no shift. Here, the central spike is removed to make it easier to see coeﬃcient values for other
lags. This is done by removing all the values for lags between −96 and +96. For all other lag values, the self-correlation is close to
zero and without any spikes, indicating that the signal is random without speciﬁc periodicity. Consequently, there is no discernible
pattern in the time series and one observation cannot be used to predict the next ones, which is a characteristic of white noise.

                                                                        7
G. Chaudhary, H. Johra, L. Georges et al.                                                                             MethodsX 11 (2023) 102464




          Fig. 6. EnergyPlus Runtime Language (ERL) pseudocode for deﬁning lighting and miscellaneous electric loads (MELs) schedules.


    Subplot (a) in Figs. 7–9 shows a full year split in 5 equal-sized sections with the frequency of change ranging from high to low.
Subplot (b) shows a full year with a random mix of frequencies. Fig. 7 displays the heating setpoint signal, illustrating random values
within the set that range from 18 °C to 22 °C, incremented by 0.5 °C intervals. Fig. 8 shows the HVAC mode with possible values in
set [0,1,2,3]. The Fig. 9 shows the signal for window opening factor with possible values in set [0,0.25,0.5,0.75,1]. A non-uniform
distribution is used for the window opening signal, with a higher likelihood of the value being 0. The other values are equally likely.
When 0 is not included in the set, the distribution is fully uniform. The observed triangular shape in the autocorrelation function
corroborates this non-uniform distribution. As the lag deviates from 0 in either direction, the autocorrelation decreases, reﬂecting a
diminished likelihood of observing the same value, especially given the dominance of the value 0. Essentially, repeated occurrences
of the value 0 lead to sequences of similar values, causing positive autocorrelations for short lags. With increased lags, the chances
of observing the same value decline, aligning with the observed decrease in autocorrelation values farther from lag 0.
    The settings for various levels of frequency of change can be modiﬁed by the user using the Conﬁg_input.yaml ﬁle to have more
control over the time dynamics that need to be captured.

Random HVAC heating and cooling setpoints

   For traditional building energy simulations, typically "Scheduled setpoints" are used for heating and cooling setpoints. For example,
the heating setpoint might be set to 21 °C and the cooling setpoint to 24 °C for occupied hours, with setback temperatures during
unoccupied hours. Fig. 10 depicts the diﬀerence in IAT evolution between random and scheduled sets of heating/cooling setpoint
during a heating-dominated 31-day period. Fig. 11 shows the heating and cooling power demand during a six-month period. Heating
demand is shown as positive values and cooling demand is shown as negative values. Scheduled temperature setpoints lead to
repetitive IAT evolution and power demand. Although using scheduled temperatures can aid a data-driven model in recognizing
building dynamics for a speciﬁc set of temperature values, it may not be conducive to learn how the building dynamics will change
with diﬀerent temperature setpoints. The random setpoint signals allow the data-driven model to learn how the building dynamics
will evolve when HVAC setpoint is changed from one value to another.

Random HVAC running mode

  A predictive controller can assess whether the energy demand can be decreased by controlling the HVAC system using prediction
models that have learned the building dynamics when heating and/or cooling is enabled. In order to develop a data-driven model

                                                                       8
G. Chaudhary, H. Johra, L. Georges et al.                                                                   MethodsX 11 (2023) 102464




                                            Fig. 7. Example HVAC heating setpoint signal.



for this purpose, the HVAC system in EnergyPlus building model was programmed to operate randomly in four distinct modes as
mentioned in the Methods section. Fig. 12 presents the varying IAT under diﬀerent HVAC modes during the same time frame and
boundary conditions as displayed in Fig. 10. The ﬁrst subplot displays the IAT for diﬀerent HVAC modes that are either ﬁxed for the
entire 31-day period or varying randomly, given by the random HVAC mode schedule in the second subplot. The third subplot shows
a holiday schedule with working days (designated by 1) and holidays/weekends (designated by 0). Fig. 13 demonstrates the energy
use of the VRF system for diﬀerent HVAC modes, i.e., mode 0, 1, 2 or 3, and a random mix of all four, during the same time frame
and boundary conditions as illustrated in Fig. 11 for the same 31-day period.
    The results in Figs. 12 and 13 indicate that by using just one signal with a random mix of HVAC running modes, the building
dynamics of all modes and the impacts of diﬀerent boundary conditions can be captured.


Random window opening

   The purpose of the random window opening signal is to explore how a data-driven model can predict the impact of opening a
window on the dynamics of a building. This impact depends on the temperature diﬀerence between indoor and outdoor environments
and the mode of the HVAC system. When a window is opened or closed, the IAT experiences a sudden change. It then gradually
stabilizes once the window signal is reversed. The opening of a window also aﬀects the CO2 concentration in the zone and the energy
use of the HVAC system. By using a dataset generated by synconn_build, a trained model should be able to leverage window opening
as a means to enhance comfort and reduce energy needs. Fig. 14 illustrates a 60-day simulation period with both random HVAC
mode and random window opening signals. The ﬁrst, second and third subplot shows the energy use, sudden changes in IAT and
CO2 concentration, respectively, whenever the window is opened and closed for certain HVAC mode. The fourth subplot shows the
window opening signal, where 0 corresponds to the window being closed and 0.25, 0.5, 0.75, and 1 indicates the relative eﬀective
window opening area. In this case, the window remains open from 2 to 16 timesteps (i.e., 30 min to 4 h). The ﬁfth subplot shows
the random HVAC mode schedule used here. The aim is to capture building dynamics for varying HVAC mode and opening/closing
of window during diﬀerent boundary condition using just one simulation, resulting in less generated data. The choice of a 60-day
simulation period was speciﬁcally made to encompass scenarios where the outside air temperature is both higher and lower than

                                                                 9
G. Chaudhary, H. Johra, L. Georges et al.                                                                      MethodsX 11 (2023) 102464




                                               Fig. 8. Example HVAC running mode signal.


the IAT. This was driven by the goal to demonstrate diverse spikes in indoor air temperature (IAT) and subsequent variations in
both heating and cooling demand. By showcasing such periods, it illustrates the range of potential eﬀects on power demand and
temperature ﬂuctuations.

Data structure

    This section provides the structure of the dataset, and the way data is saved in diﬀerent directories.

Time-series data

   The time-series dataset generated by the EnergyPlus simulation engine is provided in CSV ﬁle format. The ﬁrst column is labelled
"Date/Time", representing the date and time of each timestep, while the remaining columns correspond to diﬀerent variables and
outputs related to building dynamics (as summarized in Table 1). The generated time series dataset can be conveniently analysed
using any programming tool or software for CSV ﬁles.

The ﬁle structure of the dataset

   The dataset generator produces a structured set of output CSV ﬁles, EnergyPlus input ﬁles, and weather data to ensure that
simulations are repeatable and that all CSV dataset ﬁles are easily accessible through basic scripts. Fig. 1 illustrates the ﬁle struc-
ture and naming conventions used in the ‘Dataset_output/’ folder. The folder structure includes a unique identiﬁer (%city_name%)
based on the name of the weather ﬁle used, a user-chosen preﬁx identiﬁer (%preﬁx_identiﬁer%) to categorize diﬀerent simulation
runs, an identiﬁer for simulation timestep intervals used (%interval%), and a simulation index (%n%) for the user-chosen setting
‘number_of_stochastic_EP_cases_to_generate’, where%n% represents the index number for the same type of simulation run with the
same%preﬁx_identiﬁer%.
   All the sub-folders with the same%preﬁx_identiﬁer% will have the same simulation settings such as simulation timestep and en-
abled/disabled use of random HVAC mode/HVAC setpoints/window opening signals. It is important to note that all the sub-folders

                                                                   10
G. Chaudhary, H. Johra, L. Georges et al.                                                                      MethodsX 11 (2023) 102464




                                             Fig. 9. Example Window opening factor signal.



with diﬀerent%n% (but the same%preﬁx_identiﬁer%) will have diﬀerent randomness, including input signals for HVAC mode, HVAC
setpoints and window opening, and stochastic occupancy for the ﬁve zones. The ﬁnal time-series dataset output from EnergyPlus
is%City_name%_%n%_output.csv. The simulation can be re-run again from the ’temp’ folder where all the required input ﬁles for Ener-
gyPlus are copied.



Discussion and conclusion

    The open-source tool, synconn_build, described in this paper enables the generation of synthetic time series datasets for building
dynamics, which can be used to validate control-oriented data-driven models. The highly customizable working of synconn_build
allows greater control over the quality of building dynamics data. As the number of control variables increases, the intricacies of the
building dynamics become more complex, posing challenges for neural networks. Window openings and HVAC modes contribute to
transient behavior and intricate thermal patterns that require advanced prediction methods. When these control variables undergo
frequent changes, the intricacies intensify, compounding the prediction diﬃculty. However, through careful design of the signals
and/or judicious selection of control variables, users can progressively amplify the complexity level of building dynamics while
enhancing the prediction model. A progressive approach, starting with simpler models and fewer variables, can help in understanding
the foundational dynamics. As familiarity and model performance improve, more complexity can be added iteratively. This layered
approach not only aids in improving the prediction accuracy but also provides insights into how diﬀerent variables impact overall
building behavior.
    The tool’s output is a text-based CSV ﬁle that contains time proﬁles for all internal loads, weather data, indoor air temperature,
CO2 concentration, and HVAC energy use. The user has complete control over the generation of the random signals for the control
variables and the energy simulation boundary conditions, as well as the temporal granularity of the output data. Synconn_build can also
be customized to instruct EnergyPlus to provide additional HVAC data (like supply temperatures, ﬂow pressures and coil inlet/outlet
temperatures). Additionally, users can customize their EnergyPlus IDF ﬁles with diﬀerent building geometry and components in
similar way shown the example 5-zone oﬃce building IDF template ﬁle.

                                                                  11
G. Chaudhary, H. Johra, L. Georges et al.                                                                                   MethodsX 11 (2023) 102464




Table 1
Final time-series dataset ﬁle summary.

  Column #          Category                      Column name                                       Unit       Comments

  1                 Date/Time                     Date/Time                                         [-]        Format:
                                                                                                               %d/%m%H:%M:%S
  2                 Weather                     E nvironment:Site Outdoor Air Drybulb Temperature °C
                                                [C](TimeStep)
  3                                             Environment:Site Outdoor Air Relative Humidity        %
                                                [%](TimeStep)
  4                                             Environment:Site Wind Speed [m/s](TimeStep)           m/s
  5                                             Environment:Site Diﬀuse Solar Radiation Rate per      W/m2
                                                Area [W/m2](TimeStep)
  6                                             Environment:Site Direct Solar Radiation Rate per Area W/m2
                                                [W/m2](TimeStep)
  7–11              Zone Internal Loads         %zone_name%:Zone People Occupant Count                [-]      5 columns for each
                                                [](TimeStep)                                                   with%zone_name% = [PERIMETER_ZN_1,
  12–16                                         %zone_name%:Zone Lights Electricity Rate              W        PERIMETER_ZN_2, PERIMETER_ZN_3,
                                                [W](TimeStep)                                                  PERIMETER_ZN_4, CORE_ZN]
  17–21                                         %zone_name%:Zone Electric Equipment Electricity       W
                                                Rate [W](TimeStep)
  22                Holiday                     EMS:Holiday [](TimeStep)                              [-]
  23                Occupied                    EMS: Occupied [](TimeStep)                            [-]
  24–28             Window Opening Factor       EMS:WINDOW_%zone_name%_OPENING_FACTOR                 [-]      5 columns for each
                                                [](TimeStep)                                                   with%zone_name% = [PERIMETER_ZN_1,
  29–33             HVAC Operation Mode         EMS:HVAC_%zone_name%_OPERATION_MODE                   [-]      PERIMETER_ZN_2, PERIMETER_ZN_3,
                                                [](TimeStep)                                                   PERIMETER_ZN_4, CORE_ZN]
  34–38             HVAC Heating Setpoint       E MS:%zone_name%_HEATING_SETPOINT                     °C
                                                [](TimeStep)
  39–43             HVAC Cooling Setpoint       E MS:%zone_name%_COOLING_SETPOINT                     °C
                                                [](TimeStep)
  44–48             Zone Indoor Air Temperature E MS:%zone_name%_INDOOR_AIR_TEMPERATURE               °C
                                                [](TimeStep)
  49–53             Zone VRF Heating Energy     EMS:VRF_HEATING_POWER_DEMAND_%zone_name% W
                    Use                         [](TimeStep)
  54–58             Zone VRF Cooling Energy     EMS:VRF_COOLING_ POWER_DEMAND _%zone_name% W
                    Use                         [](TimeStep)
  59–63             Zone All HVAC Energy Use    EMS:ZONE_HVAC_ POWER_DEMAND _%zone_name% kW
                                                [](TimeStep)
  64–69             Zone CO2 concentration      %zone_name%:Zone Air CO2 Concentration                ppm      %zone_name% = [PLENUM-1,
                                                [ppm](TimeStep)                                                PERIMETER_ZN_1, PERIMETER_ZN_2,
                                                                                                               PERIMETER_ZN_3, PERIMETER_ZN_4,
                                                                                                               CORE_ZN]




                                            Fig. 10. Examples of heating and cooling temperature setpoint signal.



                                                                             12
G. Chaudhary, H. Johra, L. Georges et al.                                                                          MethodsX 11 (2023) 102464




              Fig. 11. Example of how heating and cooling power demand would be diﬀerent for random vs schedules HVAC setpoints.




                                       Fig. 12. Example of how HVAC mode would aﬀect the indoor air temperature.



    Moreover, datasets generated by synconn_build allows for pre-training data-driven models with basic building dynamics learnings,
following the transfer learning principles. The pre-trained models can be continuously tuned using collected operation datasets from
real buildings, enabling more robust and adaptive HVAC control. The control variables selected for this tool (HVAC setpoints, HVAC
mode, and window opening) may be suﬃcient for a good control algorithm, although additional variables could be included in future
work. A similar methodology of creating a dataset using random signals can be applied to other control variables, expanding the
scope of synconn_build ’s application.
    A stochastic data generator oﬀers ﬂexibility and eﬃciently captures various conditions, but it is not without challenges. A key
concern is the authenticity of its randomness. If not genuine, it might create patterns unreﬂective of real-world situations. This
randomness does not guarantee that all potential scenarios are represented, potentially overlooking crucial dynamics. Rare but vital
scenarios could be overlooked, creating gaps in the understanding of the system dynamics. The randomness can also lead to bias or
skewed data, with some scenarios over- or underrepresented. This lack of uniformity can mislead analytical evaluations.
    Additionally, the generator may not capture the complex interdependencies present in real-world variables, leading to unlikely
data combinations. Lastly, there is a risk of overﬁtting when training models on such data. When models are trained on data produced
stochastically, there is a risk that they might ﬁt too closely to the quirks and nuances of the generated data, rather than learning the
broader patterns representative of real-world conditions. This can result in models that perform exceptionally well on the training
data but fail to generalize eﬀectively when exposed to new, unseen data.

                                                                          13
G. Chaudhary, H. Johra, L. Georges et al.                                                                            MethodsX 11 (2023) 102464




                                    Fig. 13. Example of how HVAC mode would aﬀect the heating and cooling demand.




                                    Fig. 14. Example of how window opening would aﬀect the indoor air temperature.



                                                                         14
G. Chaudhary, H. Johra, L. Georges et al.                                                                           MethodsX 11 (2023) 102464




                                            Fig. 15. Pseudocode for usage of synconn_build and dataset generated.



Code availability and usage

    The data generator tool, synconn_build, is designed to be easily accessible and readily available for use. Synconn_build’s codebase is
hosted on a public GitHub repository (https://github.com/gaurav306/synconn_build), and its V2.0 release [35] has been deposited
on Zendo.org. To utilize synconn_build, users must have access to Python 3.10 and EnergyPlus v22.1.0. Both of these software packages
are freely available for download and do not require a personal license for use. However, users should note that certain Python de-
pendencies are required to run scripts of synconn_build, including pandas, PyYAML, numpy, matplotlib, eppy, zipp, scipy, and statsmodels.
These dependencies can be installed using standard Python package management tools, such as pip. Synconn_build is licensed under
the MIT license and is Windows operating system dependent.
    To utilize this tool, the users would have to download the contents from GitHub’s repository link. After inputting required settings
in the Conﬁg_input.yaml ﬁle, the user can trigger data generation from the Run_main.py script in the GitHub codebase. Pseudocode for
its usage and how data generated from it can be used for a black-box model is shown in Fig. 15.



Declaration of Competing Interest

   The authors declare that they have no known competing ﬁnancial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to
inﬂuence the work reported in this paper.




                                                                             15
G. Chaudhary, H. Johra, L. Georges et al.                                                                                                   MethodsX 11 (2023) 102464


CRediT authorship contribution statement

   Gaurav Chaudhary: Conceptualization, Methodology, Software, Writing – original draft. Hicham Johra: Visualization, Writing –
review & editing, Supervision. Laurent Georges: Visualization, Writing – review & editing, Supervision. Bjørn Austbø: Visualization,
Writing – review & editing, Supervision.

Data availability

    No data was used for the research described in the article.

Acknowledgments

   The authors acknowledge the support from the ENERSENSE strategic research program initiative at Norwegian University of
Science and Technology (NTNU).

References

 [1] 2020 Global Status Report for Buildings and Construction: Towards a zero-emissions, eﬃcient and resilient buildings and construction sector - executive summary
     2020.
 [2] H.S. Li, Y.C. Geng, R. Shinwari, W. Yangjie, H. Rjoub, Does renewable energy electricity and economic complexity index help to achieve carbon neutrality target
     of top exporting countries? J. Environ. Manag. 299 (2021), doi:10.1016/j.jenvman.2021.113386.
 [3] Neukomm M., Nubbe V., Fares R. Grid-Interactive Eﬃcient Buildings. United States: 2019. doi:10.2172/1508212.
 [4] É. Mata, D. Peñaloza, F. Sandkvist, T. Nyberg, What is stopping low-carbon buildings? A global review of enablers and barriers, Energy Res. Soc. Sci. 82 (2021),
     doi:10.1016/j.erss.2021.102261.
 [5] J. Drgoňa, J. Arroyo, I. Cupeiro Figueroa, D. Blum, K. Arendt, D. Kim, et al., All you need to know about model predictive control for buildings, Annu. Rev.
     Control. 50 (2020) 190–232, doi:10.1016/j.arcontrol.2020.09.001.
 [6] Y. Chen, Z. Tong, Y. Zheng, H. Samuelson, L. Norford, Transfer learning with deep neural networks for model predictive control of HVAC and natural ventilation
     in smart buildings, J. Clean. Prod. 254 (2020) 119866, doi:10.1016/j.jclepro.2019.119866.
 [7] X. Yu, L. Georges, L. Imsland, Data pre-processing and optimization techniques for stochastic and deterministic low-order grey-box models of residential buildings,
     Energy Build. 236 (2021) 110775, doi:10.1016/j.enbuild.2021.110775.
 [8] H. Johra, M. Schaﬀer, G. Chaudhary, H.S. Kazmi, J. Le Dréau, S Petersen, What metrics does the building energy performance community use to compare
     dynamic models? IBPSA (2023).
 [9] G. Pinto, R. Messina, H. Li, T. Hong, M.S. Piscitelli, A. Capozzoli, Sharing is caring: an extensive analysis of parameter-based transfer learning for the prediction
     of building thermal dynamics, Energy Build. 276 (2022) 112530, doi:10.1016/j.enbuild.2022.112530.
[10] I. Sartori, H.T. Walnum, K.S. Skeie, L. Georges, M.D. Knudsen, P. Bacher, et al., Sub-hourly measurement datasets from 6 real buildings: energy use and indoor
     climate, Data Brief 48 (2023) 109149.
[11] M. Pipattanasomporn, G. Chitalia, J. Songsiri, C. Aswakul, W. Pora, S. Suwankawin, et al., CU-BEMS, smart building electricity consumption and indoor envi-
     ronmental sensor datasets, Sci. Data (2020) 7, doi:10.1038/s41597-020-00582-3.
[12] A.M. Ibarra, A. González-Vidal, A. Skarmeta, PLEIAData: consumption, HVAC, temperature, weather and motion sensor data for smart buildings applications,
     Sci. Data 10 (2023) 118.
[13] C. Miller, A. Kathirgamanathan, B. Picchetti, P. Arjunan, J. Park, Z. Nagy, et al., The building data genome project 2, energy meter data from the ASHRAE great
     energy predictor III competition, Sci. Data 7 (2020), doi:10.1038/s41597-020-00712-x.
[14] H. Li, Z. Wang, T. Hong, A synthetic building operation dataset, Sci. Data 8 (2021) 213.
[15] T. Hong, D. Macumber, H. Li, K. Fleming, Z. Wang, Generation and representation of synthetic smart meter data, Build. Simul. 13 (2020) 1205–1220,
     doi:10.1007/s12273-020-0661-y.
[16] J. Roth, A. Martin, C. Miller, Jain R. SynCity, Using open data to create a synthetic city of hourly building energy estimates by integrating data-driven and
     physics-based methods, Appl. Energy 280 (2020), doi:10.1016/j.apenergy.2020.115981.
[17] C. Klemenjak, C. Kovatsch, M. Herold, W. Elmenreich, A synthetic energy dataset for non-intrusive load monitoring in households, Sci. Data 7 (2020) 108.
[18] W. Knight, Self-driving cars can learn a lot by playing grand theft auto, MIT Technol. Review (2016).
[19] A. Shrivastava, T. Pﬁster, O. Tuzel, J. Susskind, W. Wang, R. Webb, Learning from simulated and unsupervised images through adversarial training, in: Proceedings
     of the IEEE conference on computer vision and pattern recognition, 2017, pp. 2107–2116.
[20] E. Nikolaev, P. Dvoryaninov, Y. Lensky, N. Drozdovsky, Using Virtual Data For Training Deep Model For Hand Gesture Recognition, 1015, IOP Publishing, 2018.
[21] J. Dahmen, D. Cook, SynSys: a synthetic data generation system for healthcare applications, Sensors 19 (2019) 1181.
[22] Chaudhary G., Johra H., Georges L., Austbø B. Predicting the performance of hybrid ventilation in buildings using a multivariate attention-based biLSTM
     encoder-decoder neural network. ArXiv Preprint ArXiv:230204126 2023.
[23] Y. Chen, T. Hong, X. Luo, in: An Agent-Based Stochastic Occupancy Simulator, 11, Springer, 2018, pp. 37–49.
[24] A. Althnian, D. AlSaeed, H. Al-Baity, A. Samha, A.B. Dris, N. Alzakari, et al., Impact of dataset size on classiﬁcation performance: an empirical evaluation in the
     medical domain, Appl. Sci. 11 (2021), doi:10.3390/app11020796.
[25] R. Reed, R.J. MarksII, Neural smithing: Supervised Learning in Feedforward Artiﬁcial Neural Networks, Mit Press, 1999.
[26] C.M. Bishop, Training with noise is equivalent to Tikhonov regularization, Neural Comput. 7 (1995) 108–116.
[27] G. Reynders, J. Diriken, D. Saelens, Quality of grey-box models and identiﬁed parameters as function of the accuracy of input and observation signals, Energy
     Build. 82 (2014) 263–274.
[28] D.B. Crawley, L.K. Lawrie, F.C. Winkelmann, W.F. Buhl, Y.J. Huang, C.O. Pedersen, et al., EnergyPlus: creating a new-generation building energy simulation
     program, Energy Build. 33 (2001) 319–331.
[29] Deru M., Field K., Studer D., Benne K., Griﬃth B., Torcellini P., et al. US department of energy commercial reference building models of the national building
     stock 2011.
[30] F.C. Winkelmann, Modeling windows in EnergyPlus, Build. Simul. (2001).
[31] B. Torregrosa-Jaime, P.J. Martínez, B. González, G. Payá-Ballester, Modelling of a variable refrigerant ﬂow system in EnergyPlus for building energy simulation
     in an open building information modelling environment, Energies 12 (2018) 22, doi:10.3390/en12010022.
[32] C. Wang, D. Yan, Y. Jiang, A novel approach for building occupancy simulation, Build. Simul. 4 (2011) 149–167, doi:10.1007/s12273-011-0044-5.
[33] A. Mahdavi, F. Tahmasebi, M. Kayalar, Prediction of plug loads in oﬃce buildings: simpliﬁed and probabilistic methods, Energy Build. 129 (2016) 322–329,
     doi:10.1016/j.enbuild.2016.08.022.
[34] M.E O’neill, PCG: a family of simple fast space-eﬃcient statistically good algorithms for random number generation, ACM Trans. Math. Softw. (2014).
[35] Chaudhary G. Gaurav306/synconn_build: synconn_build 2023. doi:10.5281/zenodo.8121475.




                                                                                   16
